hey guys Jay here hope you're doing well
in this lesson we're going to look at
TOEFL reading skill number three which
is making inference
don't worry I'll teach you what the word
inference means so you can answer this
question so what are we gonna do what's
the objective first I'm gonna teach you
how to understand the question type so
when you see it on test day you know
exactly what to do second I'm going to
or we're going to learn how to answer it
accurately which is the most important
thing I guess so what we're going to do
is a task description I'll describe the
task to you I'm going to show you a
method and we're going to do some
practice okay so let me describe this
task to you this is what it will look
like on test down the left hand side
you'll see a passage of text in the
right-hand side you'll see a question
prompt and you'll see answer options now
importantly you'll know what this
question is because you can see the word
in third from paragraph two you see
paragraph 2 here it can be inferred that
something okay and then you've got your
four answer options
okay so what's in the inference what
does that mean it can be inferred an
inference an inference well to infer
means to understand the meaning behind
what is said to infer me to understand
the meaning behind what he said an
inference is not directly stated in the
text or it's not directly said it's not
explicitly said you infer information
based on surrounding information let me
give you a practical example let's say
I'm sitting in your house and the window
is open and it's cold it's cold outside
and you're near the window and I say oh
it's cold
what am I saying yes I'm saying it's
cold but what's the other information
that I'm sort of asking you or telling
you if you're standing near the window
and I say well it's cold in here the
inference that you can make is that I'm
cold and that I should shut the window
okay that's an inference because
often in language we say things but we
don't say them explicitly there's
meaning behind what he said and we often
do this to be polite or to sort of how
can I say this I'll show you in the
example that we're about to do okay let
me give you an example of an inference
okay so let's say that dogs barked okay
they make barking noises dogs bark fine
everybody knows that dogs bark fine I
just heard a bark I just heard a bark so
what's the inference here therefore it
must have been a what again this is an
inference where with where we haven't
seen the dog but we know it must have
been a dog because we heard the bark
because dogs bark all right this is
another example of an inference and we
do this happens in academic writing all
the time so probably not as easy as the
dog barking example but now you've got
an idea let's look at a method step one
read the question and the answer options
fine let's look at the question from
paragraph two it can be inferred that a
mass extinction is due it can be
inferred that a mass extinction
coincides with carbon cycling it can be
inferred that a mass extinction can wipe
out fish species it can be inferred that
a mass extinction is common so none of
these are going to be explicitly stated
in this text we're going to have to read
between the lines
step two reread the relevant section
carefully well in fact in this example
we're going to have to read the entire
paragraph so let's read it it can be
inferred that a mass extinction is due
coincides with carbon cycling can wipe
out fish species or is common here we go
in the past 540 million years the earth
has endured five mass extinction events
each involving processes that upended
the normal cycling of carbon through the
atmosphere and oceans these globally
fatal
perturbations in carbon each unfolded
over thousands to millions of years and
our coincident with the widespread
extermination of species around the
world
worryingly there has not been a mass
extinction for about 100 million years
can you see the inference here
what's the inference what is this author
saying without explicitly saying it and
let me give you a little example I think
this is the really key word here and
this section here okay so in 540 million
years we've had five mass extinction
events okay so about every 100 million
years
worryingly there has not been a mass
extinction for about a hundred million
years so it can be inferred that a mass
extinction is due coincides with carbon
cycling can wipe out fish species or is
common hmm step three
eliminate the incorrect answers so first
of all anything that's explicitly said
or anything that just doesn't make sense
we're going to get rid of so it can be
inferred that a mass extinction
coincides with carbon cycling well here
it says that a mass extinction up ends
the normal cycling of carbon so it's not
that one
it's not to be can wipe out fish species
it just doesn't say that it can be
inferred that a mass extinction is
common well every hundred million years
that's not very common is it so that's
wrong
okay so we're left with a choose the
remaining answer and the answer is of
course a it can be inferred worryingly
there has not been a mass extinction for
about 100 million years it can be
inferred that a mass extinction is due
to occur or is due I wrote this so it's
not really going to happen so go ahead
about that but that's the inference I
wanted you to understand the inference
made cool no problem let's do some
practice here we go
I want you to pause the video I want you
to can read the question prompt in the
answer options I want you to read the
passage I want you to find the inference
what is said without it
bliss at least saying it pause the video
give yourself a minute alright did you
do that I hope you did if you haven't
please go back and answer the question
right now let's look at the answer
together okay from paragraph five it can
be inferred that babies are especially
perceptive of physical appearance it can
be inferred that attractive people are
more likely to be successful it can be
inferred that our judgment of others is
most often accurate it can be inferred
that girls are more trustworthy than
boys the answer is B it can be inferred
that attractive people are more likely
to be successful let me show you why
okay so if we look at this sentence here
it says many psychology studies have
proven the existence of the so-called
Beauty stereotype this describes the
phenomenon whereby more attractive
people are also considered to be smarter
and more sociable so we can infer that
if they're smarter that if they're if
they're if they're considered not
necessarily if they're consider to be
more smarter and more more sorry smarter
and more sociable then we can infer that
attractive people are more likely to be
successful that's the inference from
this text these ones were just not
mentioned or they were incorrect okay B
is the inference that we can pull from
this text cool for TOEFL success go to e
to language comm thanks very much for
watching I appreciate I hope it was
helpful if you need practice with this
type of question which you probably do
because it's tricky
check out the website we offer tutorials
live classes heaps of practice material
and loads more I'll see you soon